---
title:  "AuraNet - Bigmode Gamejam 2023 Submission"
categories: 
  - Projects
tags:
  - Game
last_modified_at: 2023-11-27
link: https://busterbluegame.itch.io/auranet
toc: true
toc_sticky: true

---

Disclaimer: Since Game Jam events are time limited the end product wasn't finished and programming wasn't made using best practices. However the reason for this event was not to show off programming skills, but creating a game and personally to meet new people and working in a project as a team.
{: .notice--info}

{% include video id="QbaOV3pHJ4Q" provider="youtube" %}

## What and why?
{: .accordion-section-header}

  <div class="accordion-section-content">
    <p>
      Game Jams are events where participants try to make a video game in a limited time and usually with a given theme that is tied into the game they are making. In this Bigmode Gamejam 2023 the prompt was <b>MODE</b> and time limit was 20 days. Game Jams themselves are usually relaxed where the participants are hobbyist looking forward to meeting new people or putting their development skills to test.
    </p>
    <p>
      For a long time I have been curious, but never really had time to commit into a Game Jam, but finally I made my debut within Bigmode Game Jam 2023. The main reason I joined was to work with other people. I have made some small game projects, but having a team member that can do art and audio elevates the game development into a new height. Also meeting new people that have the same hobby and similar mindset was something I was really looking forward to.
    </p>
    <p>
    What we ended up creating for this Game Jam was AuraNet. AuraNet's implementation of the given theme was a switch between two modes, a tower defense- and third-person shooter mode. The design of the game was that you first created your own map in the tower defense mode that you would later destroy during the shooter mode. 
    </p>
  </div>

## Gameplay programming

This Game Jam was set during 27.11.2023 - 15.12.2023. In this project I worked as a programmer. Our team consisted of 2 programmers, which was helpful to the overall progression of hte project. We divided work between the two of us mine focusing more on the gameplay programming.

Here is a list of thins I helped to program, design and mechanics I worked on in this project:
  - Turret tracking
  - Spawning system
  - Player's auto aim assist
  - UI
    - Minimap functionality
  - Asset implementation

And a lot more!

We as a team have decided we will continue to work on the game a little bit to make it more polished and once it is released I will update this post with a lot more of the content I made in it.
{: .notice}

## Team

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/creditAuranet.png" alt="Credits for AuraNet's team" caption="Team card made by Jeremy Asuncion. Using a voice actor was permitted without breaking the team size rules." %}

