---
title:  "Escape Room Digital Minigames Further Development"
categories: 
  - Projects
tags:
  - Thesis
last_modified_at: 2023-11-25
link: https://urn.fi/URN:NBN:fi:amk-2023110928934
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

This page is a summary of my thesis mostly focusing on technical development. <br><br>
For the full thesis, which is in Finnish you can view it in **[Theseus](https://urn.fi/URN:NBN:fi:amk-2023110928934)** the open repositery for theses and publications from Finnish Universities of Applied Sciences. For English you can continue to read this page.
{: .notice--info}

First section describes the starting point of this project and why I chose this topic as my thesis. Feel free to skip it and go to the [technical implementation](#technical-implementations-and-fixes) first.
{: .notice--info}

## What and why?
{: .accordion-section-header}

  <div class="accordion-section-content">
    <p>
      In my thesis I examined further development of the minigames implemented for an escape room game. Escape room is a team-based game, where the players encounter challenges that are performed within a time limit. The escape room includes three different mini-games, which have been developed using the Unreal Engine 4 game  engine. Areas of further development include additions requested by client, bug fixes and problems detected during development. Implementations that were made were, for example, level editor and level additions to one minigame. This thesis works as a commission for the University of Eastern Finland’s project, the purpose of which was to develop computational thinking.
    </p>
    <p>
      Why I chose this project as my thesis was because I wanted to deepen my knowledge on these same technologies that were used to develop this project. I have also developed this project earlier in a course focused on project work during my studies, which made me even more interested in it. Also I have interest to work in a large-scale projects which this project fulfilled. There were new things I did want to learn from this like working with servers and
    </p>
  </div>

## Technical implementations and fixes

In this section I will go over some of the most important implementations and changes I did in this project. In addition to what is written here I have also done numerous bug fixes and smaller changes. For example minigame not being completed and custom server logs overriding itself.

### Maintenance system minigame's level editor

One of the main additions I did for the project was a level editor for the Maintenance system minigame.

{% include figure image_path="assets\images\thesisImages\minigame2level.png" alt="picture of the minigame 2 level" caption="Image of the minigame in action." %}

In this minigame the players were given a level they had to recreate with given commands. The commands always switched the state of the lights for every given horizontal or vertical line.

{% include figure image_path="assets\images\thesisImages\levelEditorImage.png" alt="picture of the level editor" caption="Image of the level editor. Light states are differentiated two kind of ways. Red and Green, Circle and Square." %}

The functionality of the level editor is very simple. It has the functionality to add, modify and delete levels.First you add a level, makes a popup that has an input text bar for the name of the level. Then you can click the arrows around the displayed level to modify the states. By clicking the arrows the corresponding line switches it's state. Creating a level this way provides a fail-safe way for the user to create levels that are always possible to complete.

Other buttons in the level editor, Save and Delete are self-explanatory, Delete of course having confirmation pop-up and Save needed to be done before switching level or going away from the level editor.

The level data is made from boolean values, which are stored on each individual devices files. Only the device that is used as a server needs to have the level made on it. The file's name is same as the level's name and the content of each file is boolean values seperated by ";". This was done so for multiple different reason.
- The created levels could be easily copied between device. 
- Functionality of the level data and level editor is very simple because there were a possibility of further development of this project.
- The display of level was done completetly in UI to enable fast iteration of levels.


